- [Instructor] Web application server clustering
offers some nice benefits in sharing user session
when combined with load balancing,
thus providing scalability and high availability
of the application to its users.
Although it's pretty common to talk about load balancing
using Apache HTTP Server,
or some other load balancing appliance like BIG-IP,
for this video we're going to stay focused
on how to cluster two Tomcat servers,
and not necessarily on load balancing.
First, let's create a directory in our terminal window,
we'll call this
our tomcat9_cluster,
we'll cd into the tomcat_9 cluster,
and then we're going to copy
our apache Tomcat 9 directory into our cluster
directory,
and we'll call it, node_a.
Then we're going to copy,
again using the -Rf
node_a,
and we'll call this one node_b,
if we do a ls -la on
node_b,
you'll notice that all of the Tomcat configuration
directories are available.
With this done,
we ar going to modify the port
in our node_b server XML file.
We'll do this by typing
vi node_b/conf/server.xml.
We'll do quick search for our 8090,
go to insert mode,
and we're going to change this to 9090,
then we're going to go down and search for 8005,
go back to insert mode,
and change this to 8006.
We'll write these changes.
The reason we're doing this is as both clusters start up,
we don't want port conflicts.
The quick and easy way to set up a cluster,
is what Tomcat provides in this commented out section.
It' called a SimpleTCPCluster.
According to the Tomcat documentation,
this tag can either be in the engine section,
or in the host section.
As you can see it's commented out.
In production environment though however,
we really need to do a bit more.
For the sake of time,
and to make this easier,
I've already provided a standard cluster configuration
in our our practice files under
01_08_configs,
and this is called the
cluster sample text.
Going back to our server config,
if we go down and look
at the cluster configuration that I've already
provided for you,
you'll first notice that
the cluster is set up to use multicast,
there are other options that you could use here,
like a static membership service,
which give you the ability to statically assign
by IP or port,
additional Tomcat instances,
however using multicast for both of these Tomcat clusters
makes it very easy to stay on the cluster route.
If you're interested in looking into these capabilities,
head over to the Tomcate.apache.com website,
the URL should be listed on the screen,
and you can find the detailed information
you would need concerning this type of configuration.
The last thing you need to do
is add the distributable tag to the web XML.
Let's switch over to our IntelliJ instance,
I've already loaded the 01_08_begin
project in our practice files,
and we're basically going to take the web XML
and right above the closing web-app tag,
we're going to type
distributable,
closing tag.
Keep in mind that any data objects that you would like
to have passed in the session to or from Tomcat instances
in this cluster,
you must make those classes serializable.
This is very simple to do,
by making the class implement
java.io.Serializable interface.
The reason for this is that class objects will be converted
to byte code by the current Tomcat JVM
and sent to another Tomcat instance on the cluster,
to be reinterpreted by the JVM.
Without the classes being serializable,
expect errors in your logs.